Refresh of the PWA docs (#2334)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/index.md

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Prerequisites

*   Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) to edit your PWA source code.
*   Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) to use it as your local web server.
*   Working knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is also a plus.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## The architecture of a PWA

Progressive Web Apps are written using the programming languages of the web: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and are distributed to your users by using web servers.

To make your app available to users, you deploy it on a web server that's accessible via HTTPS. Your server contains:

* **Back-end code**: the endpoints needed by your app, when connected to the internet, to retrieve dynamic content that may be stored in a database on your server.
* **Front-end code**: the resources needed for the app to be installed on the user's device, such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code.

> Your back-end code can use the server-side languages of your choice such as ASP.NET, Java, Node.js, or PHP. Note, however, that server-side endpoints may not even be required depending on the app your are building. The PWA you create in this tutorial does not have any server-side code because it exclusively runs on the device it's installed on and doesn't need any server-side data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your back-end code can use the server-side languages of your choice such as ASP.NET, Java, Node.js, or PHP. Note, however, that server-side endpoints may not even be required, depending on the app you're building. The PWA that you create in this tutorial doesn't have any server-side code, because the app exclusively runs on the device it's installed on, and doesn't need any server-side data.
```

> Your front-end code uses HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JSON only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your front-end code uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript only.
```

> You use HTML to describe the content in your app, such as the text, images, text fields, or buttons that appear in the user interface. You then use CSS to organize the HTML content in a layout, and provide styles to elements. And finally you use JavaScript to add user interactions to your user interface.

Reviewer: mention json here, because it's mentioned above.  What's the role of JSON files or JSON-formatted messages?

Author: Great point. I'll add the JSON manifest thing at the end of this paragraph. It's important to keep here because the architecture diagram further down has it too.

Note that although your front-end code runs by using the device's web browser, the browser user interface may not be visible as your app can choose to run in a standalone window.

On top of the user interface code, you also use JavaScript to make your application faster, more reliable, and network-independent by using a service worker file. Finally, your front-end code also contains a JSON manifest file that describes your application to the host operating system.

> Below is a diagram of the high-level architecture of a PWA:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows the high-level architecture of a PWA.  The web server is on one side of the PWA, and the device is on the other side. The device contains the front-end code, including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, the service worker, and the manifest:
```

> ![Architecture diagram of a PWA, showing the web server on one side, and the device on the other. The device part contains the front-end code with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, the service worker, and the manifest](../media/pwa-architecture.png)

Reviewer: alt-text is too long, pull out as regular text that's visible to all users.
See internal version of DCG, somewhere it gives a suggested(?) char limit for alt-text.  It's short, like 35(?) chars.
Public version:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/markdown-reference#standard-conceptual-images-default-markdown

> ![Architecture diagram of a PWA, showing the web server on one side, and the device on the other. The device part contains the front-end code with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, the service worker, and the manifest](../media/pwa-architecture.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Architecture diagram of a PWA](../media/pwa-architecture.png)
```
pulled out length alt-text as regular text that's visible to all users.

internal version of DCG gives a suggested(?) char limit for alt-text. It's short, like 35(?) chars.
Public version:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/markdown-reference#standard-conceptual-images-default-markdown
https://www.bing.com/search?q=html+length+of+alt+text

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 1 - Start a web server

PWAs are distributed to users by using web servers. Once your app is ready, deploy it to the web by using a web hosting provider. You can then update your app simply by deploying the new version to your web server again.

To start developing your PWA, you can use a local web server instead. To start a local server:

1. Create a new folder on your computer where the web server will run.

    You can do this by opening a command prompt and typing:
    
    ```shell

>     cd path\to\your\dev\folder

Reviewer: are backslashes ok for git bash on Windows or for Mac or Linux?

Author: I'm changing them to forward slashes. I think `/` are more common in technical docs and will work on mac, linux, and git bash on windows. Users of the Windows command prompt likely already know that they need to switch them to `\` instead.

    mkdir MySamplePWA
    cd MySamplePWA
    ```

1. Start the server by using the `http-server` Node.js library:

   ```shell
   npx http-server
   ```

You now have a simple local web server running at `http://localhost:8080`.

Key parts of the Progressive Web Apps platform, such as Service Workers, require using HTTPS.  When your PWA goes live, you must publish it to an HTTPS URL.  Many hosts now offer HTTPS by default, but if your host doesn't, [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) offers a free alternative for creating the necessary certificates.

For example, you can create an [Azure free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).  If you host your website on the [Microsoft Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/web), it's served over HTTPS by default.

You can also host your website on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) which supports HTTPS too.

For debugging purposes, Microsoft Edge also permits a `localhost` web server to use the PWA APIs without HTTPS.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2 - Create your app start page

> So far, there is no content available on your web server. Start by creating the first page users will see when they access your temperature converter app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, there is no content available on your web server. Start by creating the first page that users will see when they access your temperature converter app.
```
probably would've parsed easier for me

1. Open Visual Studio Code, select **File** > **Open Folder** and then select the `MySamplePWA` directory you created in the previous step.

1. Create a new file in the project by pressing `Ctrl+N`, add the following content, and save the file as `index.html`:

   ```html
   <!DOCTYPE html>
   <html lang="en-US" dir="ltr">
     <head>
       <meta charset="UTF-8" />
       <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1" />
       <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://c.s-microsoft.com/favicon.ico?v2" />
       <title>Temperature converter</title>
     </head>
     <body>
       <h1>Temperature converter</h1>
     </body>
   </html>
   ```

> Now browse to `http://localhost:8080` to view your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now browse to `http://localhost:8080` to view your app:
```
opportunity to glue the flow

> ![Running your new PWA on localhost.](../media/sample-pwa-app.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![Running your new PWA on localhost.](../media/sample-pwa-app.png)
```
possibly optional indent

>    ![Running your new PWA on localhost.](../media/sample-pwa-app.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![Running your new PWA on localhost](../media/sample-pwa-app.png)
```

> The app runs in the browser for now, and can't be installed. To make it installed, the app needs a web app manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The app runs in the browser for now, and can't be installed. To make the app installable, the app needs a web app manifest.
```

   </html>
   ```

1. Go to `http://localhost:8080` to view your app:

>    ![Running your new PWA on localhost.](../media/sample-pwa-app.png)

Reviewer: d/k why no Suggestion UI available.  Delete . from alt-text

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 4 - Continue building the user interface of your app

> Now that your app has a web app manifest file, and a start page, it is time to build out the main app functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your app has a web app manifest file, and a start page, it's time to build out the main app functionality.
```
when natural, contraction (sometimes non-contraction is correct emphasis)

> In this step of the tutorial, we will create a basic temperature unit conversion app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step of the tutorial, we'll create a basic temperature unit conversion app.
```
Acrolinx would suggest contraction.  Aim for transparent/natural tone, to decide.

1. To create the main user interface content, copy the following HTML code and paste it into the `index.html` file, replacing the `<h1>` HTML tag:

    ```html
    <form id="converter">
      <label for="input-temp">temperature</label>
      <input type="text" id="input-temp" name="input-temp" value="20" />
      <label for="input-unit">from</label>
      <select id="input-unit" name="input-unit">
        <option value="c" selected>Celsius</option>
        <option value="f">Fahrenheit</option>
        <option value="k">Kelvin</option>
      </select>
      <label for="output-unit">to</label>
      <select id="output-unit" name="output-unit">
        <option value="c">Celsius</option>
        <option value="f" selected>Fahrenheit</option>
        <option value="k">Kelvin</option>
      </select>
      <output name="output-temp" id="output-temp" for="input-temp input-unit output-unit">68 F</output>
    </form>
    ```

>     The above HTML code contains a form with multiple input elements your app will use to convert a temperature value from one unit to another unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The above HTML code contains a form with multiple input elements that your app will use to convert a temperature value from one unit to another unit.
```
acts like a divider to help me parse, as a reader, like a comma

    const form = document.getElementById('converter');
    
    function convertTemp(value, fromUnit, toUnit) {
      if (fromUnit === 'c') {
        if (toUnit === 'f') {
          return value * 9 / 5 + 32;
        } else if (toUnit === 'k') {
          return value + 273.15;
        }
        return value;
      }
      if (fromUnit === 'f') {
        if (toUnit === 'c') {
          return (value - 32) * 5 / 9;
        } else if (toUnit === 'k') {
          return (value + 459.67) * 5 / 9;
        }
        return value;
      }
      if (fromUnit === 'k') {
        if (toUnit === 'c') {
          return value - 273.15;
        } else if (toUnit === 'f') {
          return value * 9 / 5 - 459.67;
        }
        return value;
      }
      throw new Error('Invalid unit');
    }
    
    form.addEventListener('input', () => {
      const inputTemp = parseFloat(inputField.value);
      const fromUnit = fromUnitField.value;
      const toUnit = toUnitField.value;
    
      const outputTemp = convertTemp(inputTemp, fromUnit, toUnit);
      outputField.value = (Math.round(outputTemp * 100) / 100) + ' ' + toUnit.toUpperCase();
    });
    ```

> 1. Open the `index.html` file again and add the following code after the closing `</form>` tag to load the JavaScript file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the `index.html` file again and add the following code after the closing `</form>` tag, to load the JavaScript file:
```

    ```css
    html {
      background: rgb(243, 243, 243);
      font-family: system-ui, -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', Roboto, Oxygen, Ubuntu, Cantarell, 'Open Sans', 'Helvetica Neue', sans-serif;
      font-size: 15pt;
    }
    
    html, body {
      height: 100%;
      margin: 0;
    }
    
    body {
      display: grid;
      place-items: center;
    }
    
    #converter {
      width: 15rem;
      padding: 2rem;
      border-radius: .5rem;
      box-shadow: 0 0 2rem 0 #0001;
      display: flex;
      flex-direction: column;
      align-items: center;
    }
    
    #converter input, #converter select {
      font-family: inherit;
      font-size: inherit;
      margin-block-end: 1rem;
      text-align: center;
      width: 10rem;
    }
    
    #converter #output-temp {
      font-size: 2rem;
      font-weight: bold;
    }
    ```

1. Open `index.html` again and reference the new CSS file in it by adding the following code inside the `<head>` tag:

    ```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="converter.css">
    ```

> Your VS Code project should now look something like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Visual Studio Code project should now look something like this:
```

> ![Screenshot of VS Code showing the sample PWA project, with the index.html, converter.js, converter.css, and manifest.json files](../media/visual-studio-project-with-front-end-files.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The sample PWA project in Visual Studio Code, with index.html, converter.js, converter.css, and manifest.json files](../media/visual-studio-project-with-front-end-files.png)
```

> Now browse to `http://localhost:8080` to view your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to `http://localhost:8080` to view your app:
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/describing-interactions-with-ui

would need to indent the above lines as well

> ![Running your new PWA, with the frontend code, on localhost.](../media/sample-pwa-app-with-frontend-code.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![Running your new PWA, with the frontend code, on localhost](../media/sample-pwa-app-with-frontend-code.png)
```
possibly optional indent.  removed . from alttext

>     ![Running your new PWA, with the frontend code, on localhost.](../media/sample-pwa-app-with-frontend-code.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Running your new PWA, with the frontend code, on localhost](../media/sample-pwa-app-with-frontend-code.png)
```

> Your app does something useful now but can't be installed yet. You will make your app installable in the next step by creating a service worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your app does something useful now, but it can't be installed yet. You'll make your app installable in the next step, by creating a service worker.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 5 - Add a service worker

Service workers are a key technology that help make PWAs faster and independent of network conditions.

Service workers are specialized [Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) that intercept network requests from your PWA and enable scenarios that were previously limited to native apps, including:

*  Offline support.
*  Advanced caching.
*  Running background tasks such as receiving PUSH messages, adding badges to the app icon, or fetching data from a server.

> Your app must have a service worker file for Microsoft Edge to install the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Microsoft Edge to be able to install the app, your app must have a service worker file.
```
that's to prevent this mis-parsing:
Your app needs:
* A service worker file for Microsoft Edge.

> A service worker is defined in a JavaScript file loaded by your app. To add a service worker to your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A service worker is defined in a JavaScript file that's loaded by your app. To add a service worker to your project:
```

> 1. In VS Code, create a new file (`Ctrl`+`N`), add the following content, and save the file as `sw.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Visual Studio Code, create a new file (`Ctrl`+`N`), add the following content, and save the file as `sw.js`:
```

    ```javascript
    const CACHE_NAME = `temperature-converter-v1`;
    
    // Use the install event to pre-cache all initial resources.
    self.addEventListener('install', event => {
      event.waitUntil((async () => {
        const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
        cache.addAll([
          '/',
          '/converter.js',
          '/converter.css'
        ]);
      })());
    });
    
    self.addEventListener('fetch', event => {
      event.respondWith((async () => {
        const cache = await caches.open(CACHE_NAME);
    
        // Get the resource from the cache.
        const cachedResponse = await cache.match(event.request);
        if (cachedResponse) {
          return cachedResponse;
        } else {
            try {
              // If the resource was not in the cache, try the network.
              const fetchResponse = await fetch(event.request);
        
              // Save the resource in the cache and return it.
              cache.put(event.request, fetchResponse.clone());
              return fetchResponse;
            } catch (e) {

>               // The network failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              // The network failed.
```

To confirm that your service worker is running:

> 1.  Browse to `http://localhost:8080` in Microsoft Edge and press `F12` to open DevTools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Microsoft Edge, go to `http://localhost:8080` and then press `F12` to open DevTools.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/describing-interactions-with-ui

md template for f12: 
```
Or, press `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`I` (Windows, Linux) or `Command`+`Option`+`I` (macOS).
```

![The sample PWA, installed and running in its own window](../media/sample-pwa-installed.png)

To learn more about installing PWAs, see [Use Progressive Web Apps in Microsoft Edge](../ux.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Next steps

The simple temperature converter PWA you built so far only scratches the surface of what PWAs can do. The previous steps are important prerequisites for any PWA, but there are important best practices that will make your PWA feel like a real app when installed.

> When users install applications, they have certain expectations of what these applications can do, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users install applications, they have certain expectations of what these applications can do; for example:
```

* Users expect apps to work offline.

> * Users expect apps to integrate within the operating system by, for example, handling files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Users expect apps to integrate within the operating system, such as by handling files.
```
